[gree] Initial contribution (#7504)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.gree/README.md

|               |           | Full Swing: 1, Up: 2, MidUp: 3, Mid: 4, Mid Down: 5, Down : 6                                     |
| windspeed     | Number    | Sets the fan speed on the Air conditioner Auto:0, Low:1, MidLow:2, Mid:3, MidHigh:4, High:5       |
|               |           | The number of speeds depends on the Air Conditioner model.                                        |
| air           | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Air function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model          |
| dry           | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Dry function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model          |
| health        | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Health function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model       |
| powersave     | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Power Saving function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model |

## Full Example

Things:

```
Thing gree:airconditioner:a1234561 [ ipAddress="192.168.1.111", refresh=2 ]
```

Items:

```
Switch AirconPower                  { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:power" }

> Number AirconMode                   { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:modec" }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number AirconMode                   { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:mode" }
```

Author: fixed

# GREE Binding

This binding integrates GREE Air Conditioners.

> Note : The GREE Air Conditioner must already be setup on the WiFi network and must have a fixed IP Address.

Author: done

## Supported Things

This binding supports one Thing type `airconditioner`.

## Discovery

Once the GREE is on the network (WiFi active) it could be discovery automatically.
An IP broadcast message is sent and every responding units gets added to the Inbox. 

## Binding Configuration

No binding configuration is required.

#### Manual Thing Creation

Fans can be manually created in the *PaperUI* or *HABmin*, or by placing a *.things* file in the *conf/things* directory.  See example below.

## Thing Configuration

> The Air Conditioner's IP address is mandantory, all other parameters are optional. 

Author: done

If the broadcast is not set (default) it will be derived from openHAB's network setting (PaperUI:Configuration:System:Network Settings). 
Change this only for good reasons.

## Channels

The following channels are supported for fans:

| Channel Name  | Item Type | Description                                                                                       |
|---------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| power         | Switch    | Power on/off the Air Conditioner                                                                  |
| mode          | String    | Sets the operating mode of the Air Conditioner                                                    |
|               |           | Mode can be one of auto/cool/eco/dry/fan/turboheat or on/off                                      |
|               |           | You could also send "0".."4", which will be send transparent to the device:                       |
|               |           | those map to: "0"=Auto, "1"=Cool, "2"=Dry, "3"=Fan only, "4"=heat                                 | 

> |               |           | Check the Air Conditioner's operating manual for supported modes.                                 |

Reviewer 2: Can you mention which of the three variants (auto/cool/eco/dry/fan/turboheat OR on/off OR 0-4) is used, when the status is read from the AC?

Author: those are text values, some of them map into multi parameters

Reviewer 2: When the user monitors changing of the mode in a Rule, he must known which values he has to expect. E.g. if he checks for 0-4 it won't work, because the values published to the Channel are auto/cool/eco/dry/fan/turboheat. I would mention that auto/cool/eco/dry/fan/turboheat is the default. From the usability perspective it might be even better to remove 0-4 at all, to not to confuse the user. Or is there a use case I don't see?

Author: it's already like this :-) just updated the README

| temperature   | Number    | Sets the desired room temperature                                                                 |
| air           | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Air function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model          |
| dry           | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Dry function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model          |
| health        | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Health function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model       |
| turbo         | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Turbo mode.                                                      |

> | swingvertical | Number    | Sets the vertical swing action on the Air Conditioner                                             |

Author: done

}
Frame label="Options"
{
   Switch item=AirconTurbo label="Turbo" icon=fan
   Switch item=AirconLight label="Light" icon=light
   Switch item=AirconAir label="Air" icon=flow
   Switch item=AirconDry label="Dry" icon=rain
   Switch item=AirconHealth label="Health" icon=smiley
   Switch item=AirconPowerSaving label="Power Saving" icon=poweroutlet
}
```

### Google Home Assistant

This example shows who to make the GREE Air Conditioner controllable by Google HA (A/C mode + temperature)

Items:

```
Group Gree_Modechannel                 "Gree"        { ga="Thermostat" } // Gree bindinggal
// GREE A/C
    Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Power   "Aircon"              {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:power", ga="Switch"}
    Number   GreeAirConditioner_Mode    "Aircon Mode"         {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:mode", ga="thermostatMode"}
    Number   GreeAirConditioner_Temp    "Aircon Temperature"  {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:temperature}
    Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Lightl  "Light"               {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:light"}
```

Rule:

> ```

Author: changed

# GREE Binding

This binding integrates GREE Air Conditioners.

Note: The GREE Air Conditioner must already be setup on the WiFi network and must have a fixed IP Address.

## Supported Things

This binding supports one Thing type `airconditioner`.

## Discovery

Once the GREE is on the network (WiFi active) it could be discovery automatically.

> An IP broadcast message is sent and every responding units gets added to the Inbox. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An IP broadcast message is sent and every responding unit gets added to the Inbox. 
```

Author: fixed

## Binding Configuration

No binding configuration is required.

#### Manual Thing Creation

Fans can be manually created in the *PaperUI* or *HABmin*, or by placing a *.things* file in the *conf/things* directory.  See example below.

> 

Reviewer 3: These sections should be removed.

Reviewer 4: Don't agree. There are many people using textual configuration, so examples are highly appreciated.
Textual config will still remain as an option in openHAB 3.0

Author: I think @cpmeister is referring to this paragraph

```
Fans can be manually created in the *PaperUI* or *HABmin*, or by placing a *.things* file in the *conf/things* directory.  See example below.
```

because it's "business as usual"

Author: paragraph removed

Reviewer 3: I was also referring to the Binding Configuration section since in our readme template we state:
> If your binding does not offer any generic configurations, you can remove this section completely.

The Air Conditioner's IP address is mandatory, all other parameters are optional. 
If the broadcast is not set (default) it will be derived from openHAB's network setting (PaperUI:Configuration:System:Network Settings). 
Only change this if you have a good reason to.

## Channels

The following channels are supported for fans:

| Channel Name  | Item Type | Description                                                                                       |
|---------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| power         | Switch    | Power on/off the Air Conditioner                                                                  |
| mode          | String    | Sets the operating mode of the Air Conditioner                                                    |
|               |           | Mode can be one of auto/cool/eco/dry/fan/heat or on/off                                     |
|               |           | Check the Air Conditioner's operating manual for supported modes.                                 |

> | temperature   | Number    | Sets the desired room temperature                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| temperature   | Number:Temperature    | Sets the desired room temperature                                                                 |
```

Author: changed

|               |           | The number of speeds depends on the Air Conditioner model.                                        |
| powersave     | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Power Saving function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model |
| light         | Switch    | Enable/disable the front display on the Air Conditioner if applicable to the Air Conditioner model|
|               |           | Full Swing: 1, Up: 2, MidUp: 3, Mid: 4, Mid Down: 5, Down : 6                                     |

When changing mode, the air conditioner will be turned on unless "off" is selected.

## Full Example

**Things**

```
Thing gree:airconditioner:a1234561 [ ipAddress="192.168.1.111", refresh=2 ]
```

**Items**

```
Switch AirconPower                  { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:power" }
Number AirconMode                   { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:mode" }
Switch AirconTurbo                  { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:turbo" }
Switch AirconLight                  { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:light" }
Number AirconTemp "Temperature [%.1f °C]" {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:temperature" }

> Number AirconTempSet                { channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:temperature" }

Reviewer 3: Why are there two items for the same channel here?
Also they should be `Number:Temperature`.

Author: fixed

## Supported Things

This binding supports one Thing type `airconditioner`.

## Discovery

Once the GREE is on the network (WiFi active) it could be discovery automatically.
An IP broadcast message is sent and every responding units gets added to the Inbox. 

## Binding Configuration

No binding configuration is required.

#### Manual Thing Creation

Fans can be manually created in the *PaperUI* or *HABmin*, or by placing a *.things* file in the *conf/things* directory.  See example below.

## Thing Configuration

| Channel Name     | Type       | Description                                                                                   |
|------------------|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ipAddress        | IP Address | IP address of the unit.                                                                       |
| broadcastAddress | IP Address | Broadcast address being used for discovery, usually derived from the IP interface address.    |
| refresh          | Integer    | Refresh interval in seconds for polling the device status.                                    |

> The Air Conditioner's IP address is mandantory, all other parameters are optional. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Air Conditioner's IP address is mandatory, all other parameters are optional. 
```

Author: fixed

If the broadcast is not set (default) it will be derived from openHAB's network setting (PaperUI:Configuration:System:Network Settings). 

> Change this only for good reasons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only change this if you have a good reason to.
```

Author: changed

| swingUpDown   | Number    | Sets the vertical (up..down) swing action on the Air Conditioner,                                 |
|               |           | OFF: 0, Full Swing: 1, Up: 2, MidUp: 3, Mid: 4, Mid Down: 5, Down : 6                             |
| swingLeftRight| Number    | Sets the horizontal (left..right) swing action on the Air Conditioner                             |
|               |           | OFF: 0, Full Swing: 1, Left: 2, Mid Left: 3, Mid: 4, Mid Right: 5, Right : 6                      |
| windspeed     | Number    | Sets the fan speed on the Air conditioner Auto:0, Low:1, MidLow:2, Mid:3, MidHigh:4, High:5       |
|               |           | The number of speeds depends on the Air Conditioner model.                                        |
| powersave     | Switch    | Set on/off the Air Conditioner's Power Saving function if applicable to the Air Conditioner model |
| light         | Switch    | Enable/disable the front display on the Air Conditioner if applicable to the Air Conditioner model|
|               |           | Full Swing: 1, Up: 2, MidUp: 3, Mid: 4, Mid Down: 5, Down : 6                                     |

> When changing the mode the air conditioner will be turned on (unless is off is selected).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When changing mode, the air conditioner will be turned on unless "off" is selected.
```

Author: changed

```
Frame label="Controls"
{
   Switch item=AirconMode label="Mode" mappings=["auto"="Auto", "cool"="Cool", "eco"="Eco", "dry"="Dry", "fan"="Fan", "turbo"="Turbo", "heat"="Heat", "on"="ON", "off"="OFF"]
   Setpoint item=AirconTemp label="Set temperature" icon=temperature minValue=16 maxValue=30 step=1
}
Frame label="Fan Speed"
{
   Switch item=AirconFanSpeed label="Fan Speed" mappings=[0="Auto", 1="Low", 2="Medium Low", 3="Medium", 4="Medium High", 5="High"] icon=fan
}
Frame label="Fan-Swing Direction"
{
   Switch item=AirconSwingVertical label="Direction V" mappings=[0="Off", 1="Full", 2="Up", 3="Mid-up", 4="Mid", 5="Mid-low", 6="Down"] icon=flow
   Switch item=AirconSwingHorizontal label="Direction H" mappings=[0="Off", 1="Full", 2="Left", 3="Mid-left", 4="Mid", 5="Mid-right", 6="Right"] icon=flow
}
Frame label="Options"
{
   Switch item=AirconTurbo label="Turbo" icon=fan
   Switch item=AirconLight label="Light" icon=light
   Switch item=AirconAir label="Air" icon=flow
   Switch item=AirconDry label="Dry" icon=rain
   Switch item=AirconHealth label="Health" icon=smiley
   Switch item=AirconPowerSaving label="Power Saving" icon=poweroutlet
}
```

**Example**

> This example shows who to make the GREE Air Conditioner controllable by Google HA (A/C mode + temperature)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example shows how to make a GREE Air Conditioner controllable by Google HA (A/C mode + temperature)
```

Author: changed

**Items**

```
Group Gree_Modechannel              "Gree"                { ga="Thermostat" } // allows mapping for Google Home Assistent
Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Power   "Aircon"              {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:power", ga="Switch"}
Number   GreeAirConditioner_Mode    "Aircon Mode"         {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:mode", ga="thermostatMode"}
Number   GreeAirConditioner_Temp    "Aircon Temperature"  {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:temperature}
Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Lightl  "Light"               {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:light"}
```

**Rules**

```
rule "Mode changed"
when
        Item GreeAirConditioner_Mode changed
then        
        if(GreeAirConditioner_Mode.state == "cool" ) {
            logInfo("A/C", "Cooling has be turned on")

>          } 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        } 
```

Author: changed

   Switch item=AirconMode label="Mode" mappings=[0="Auto", 1="Cool", 2="Dry", 3="Fan", 4="Heat"]
   Setpoint item=AirconTemp label="Set temperature" icon=temperature minValue=16 maxValue=30 step=1
}
Frame label="Fan Speed"
{
   Switch item=AirconFanSpeed label="Fan Speed" mappings=[0="Auto", 1="Low", 2="Medium Low", 3="Medium", 4="Medium High", 5="High"] icon=fan
}
Frame label="Fan-Swing Direction"
{
   Switch item=AirconSwingVertical label="Direction" mappings=[0="Off", 1="Full", 2="Up", 3="Mid-up", 4="Mid", 5="Mid-low", 6="Down"] icon=flow
}
Frame label="Options"
{
   Switch item=AirconTurbo label="Turbo" icon=fan
   Switch item=AirconLight label="Light" icon=light
   Switch item=AirconAir label="Air" icon=flow
   Switch item=AirconDry label="Dry" icon=rain
   Switch item=AirconHealth label="Health" icon=smiley
   Switch item=AirconPowerSaving label="Power Saving" icon=poweroutlet
}
```

### Google Home Assistant

This example shows who to make the GREE Air Conditioner controllable by Google HA (A/C mode + temperature)

Items:

```
Group Gree_Modechannel                 "Gree"        { ga="Thermostat" } // új Gree bindinggal
// Gree Klíma

>     Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Powerchannel           "Aircon"                                        {channel="greeair:greeairthing:a1234561:powerchannel", ga="Switch"}

Reviewer: Looks like here (and below) should change the channel name to a new format.
```suggestion
    Switch   GreeAirConditioner_Powerchannel           "Aircon"                                        {channel="gree:airconditioner:a1234561:power", ga="Switch"}
```

Author: fixed
